# LC3-Virtual-machine
This repository contains an implementation of a virtual machine for the LC-3 (Little Computer 3) architecture based on [Write your Own Virtual Machine by Justin Meiners and Ryan Pendleton](https://www.jmeiners.com/lc3-vm/). The LC-3 VM is designed to execute LC-3 machine code, which can be loaded from .obj files. It simulates the LC-3 CPU, including its registers, memory, and instruction set, and provides a simple graphical interface for user interaction.

Run the virtual machine with an LC-3 object file:


    >java LC3VM.machine path/to/program.obj

    The object file should be a valid LC-3 machine code file (.obj) generated by an LC-3 assembler.

Key Classes and Methods

    machine: The main class that sets up the GUI, handles the main execution loop, and implements the instruction set.
        main(String[] args): Initializes the VM and loads the LC-3 program.
        keyPressed(KeyEvent e), keyReleased(KeyEvent e), keyTyped(KeyEvent e): Methods to handle keyboard events.
        read_image_file(File file): Reads the LC-3 object file into memory.
        traps(char instr): Handles TRAP instructions for I/O operations.

    Memory: Class that simulates the LC-3 memory.
        mem_read(char address): Reads a value from a memory address.
        mem_write(char address, char value): Writes a value to a memory address.

    Instruction Implementations: Methods for each LC-3 instruction, such as add(char instr), and(int instr), not(int instr), etc.

    included object file were used to test the machine
